now when the people saw that Moses
now when the people saw that Moses delayed coming down from the mountain
delayed coming down from the mountain
delayed coming down from the mountain the people gathered together to Aaron
the people gathered together to Aaron
the people gathered together to Aaron and said to him come make us gods that
and said to him come make us gods that
and said to him come make us gods that shall go before us for as for this Moses
shall go before us for as for this Moses
shall go before us for as for this Moses the man who brought us up out of the
the man who brought us up out of the
the man who brought us up out of the land of Egypt we do not know what has
land of Egypt we do not know what has
land of Egypt we do not know what has become of him and Aaron said to them
become of him and Aaron said to them
become of him and Aaron said to them break off the golden earrings which are
break off the golden earrings which are
break off the golden earrings which are in the ears of your wives your sons and
in the ears of your wives your sons and
in the ears of your wives your sons and your daughters and bring them to me
your daughters and bring them to me
your daughters and bring them to me so all the people broke off the golden
so all the people broke off the golden
so all the people broke off the golden earrings which were in their ears and
earrings which were in their ears and
earrings which were in their ears and brought them to Aaron and he received
brought them to Aaron and he received
brought them to Aaron and he received the girl from their hand and he
the girl from their hand and he
the girl from their hand and he fashioned it with an engraving tool and
fashioned it with an engraving tool and
fashioned it with an engraving tool and made a molded calf then they said this
made a molded calf then they said this
made a molded calf then they said this is your God of Israel that brought you
is your God of Israel that brought you
is your God of Israel that brought you out of the land of Egypt
out of the land of Egypt
out of the land of Egypt so when Aaron saw it he built an altar
so when Aaron saw it he built an altar
so when Aaron saw it he built an altar before it and Aaron made a proclamation
before it and Aaron made a proclamation
before it and Aaron made a proclamation tomorrow is a feast to the Lord when
tomorrow is a feast to the Lord when
tomorrow is a feast to the Lord when they rose early on the next day offered
they rose early on the next day offered
they rose early on the next day offered burnt offerings and brought peace
burnt offerings and brought peace
burnt offerings and brought peace offerings and the people sat down to eat
offerings and the people sat down to eat
offerings and the people sat down to eat and drink and Rosa to play
and drink and Rosa to play
and drink and Rosa to play [Music]
[Music]
[Music] and the Lord said to Moses go get done
and the Lord said to Moses go get done
and the Lord said to Moses go get done for your people whom you brought out of
for your people whom you brought out of
for your people whom you brought out of the land of Egypt have corrupted
the land of Egypt have corrupted
the land of Egypt have corrupted themselves they have turned aside
themselves they have turned aside
themselves they have turned aside quickly out of the way which I commanded
quickly out of the way which I commanded
quickly out of the way which I commanded they have made themselves a molded calf
they have made themselves a molded calf
they have made themselves a molded calf and worshiped it and sacrificed to it
and worshiped it and sacrificed to it
and worshiped it and sacrificed to it and said this is your God of Israel that
and said this is your God of Israel that
and said this is your God of Israel that brought you out of the land of Egypt I
brought you out of the land of Egypt I
brought you out of the land of Egypt I have seen this people and indeed it is a
have seen this people and indeed it is a
have seen this people and indeed it is a stiff-necked people now therefore let me
stiff-necked people now therefore let me
stiff-necked people now therefore let me alone that my wrath may burnhardt
alone that my wrath may burnhardt
alone that my wrath may burnhardt against them and I may consume them and
against them and I may consume them and
against them and I may consume them and I will make of you a great nation and
I will make of you a great nation and
I will make of you a great nation and Moses pleaded with the Lord his God Lord
Moses pleaded with the Lord his God Lord
Moses pleaded with the Lord his God Lord why does your wrath burn the heart
why does your wrath burn the heart
why does your wrath burn the heart against your people whom you have
against your people whom you have
against your people whom you have brought out of the land of Egypt with
brought out of the land of Egypt with
brought out of the land of Egypt with great power and with a mighty
why should the Egyptians speak and say
why should the Egyptians speak and say he brought them out to harm them to kill
he brought them out to harm them to kill
he brought them out to harm them to kill them in the mountains and to consume
them in the mountains and to consume
them in the mountains and to consume them from the face of the earth turn
them from the face of the earth turn
them from the face of the earth turn from your fierce wrath and relent from
from your fierce wrath and relent from
from your fierce wrath and relent from this harm to your people remember
this harm to your people remember
this harm to your people remember Abraham Isaac and Israel your servants
Abraham Isaac and Israel your servants
Abraham Isaac and Israel your servants to whom you swore by your own self and
to whom you swore by your own self and
to whom you swore by your own self and said them I will multiply your
said them I will multiply your
said them I will multiply your descendants as the stars of heaven and
descendants as the stars of heaven and
descendants as the stars of heaven and all this land that I have spoken of I
all this land that I have spoken of I
all this land that I have spoken of I give to your descendants and they shall
give to your descendants and they shall
give to your descendants and they shall inherit it forever
so the Lord relented from the harm which
so the Lord relented from the harm which he said he would do to his people and
he said he would do to his people and
he said he would do to his people and Moses turned and went down from the
Moses turned and went down from the
Moses turned and went down from the mountain and the two tablets of the
mountain and the two tablets of the
mountain and the two tablets of the testimony were in his hand the tablets
testimony were in his hand the tablets
testimony were in his hand the tablets were written on both sides of the one
were written on both sides of the one
were written on both sides of the one side and on the other they were written
side and on the other they were written
side and on the other they were written and our tablets were the work of God and
and our tablets were the work of God and
and our tablets were the work of God and the writing was the writing of God
the writing was the writing of God
the writing was the writing of God engraved on the tablets and when Joshua
engraved on the tablets and when Joshua
engraved on the tablets and when Joshua heard the noise of the people as they
heard the noise of the people as they
heard the noise of the people as they shouted he said to Moses there was a
shouted he said to Moses there was a
shouted he said to Moses there was a noise of war in a camp it is love the
noise of war in a camp it is love the
noise of war in a camp it is love the noise of the shower victory nor the
noise of the shower victory nor the
noise of the shower victory nor the noise of the cry of defeat but the sound
noise of the cry of defeat but the sound
noise of the cry of defeat but the sound of singing here
of singing here
of singing here [Music]
[Music]
[Music] so it was as soon as he came near the
so it was as soon as he came near the
so it was as soon as he came near the camp that he saw the calf and the
camp that he saw the calf and the
camp that he saw the calf and the dancing so Moses anger became hot and he
dancing so Moses anger became hot and he
dancing so Moses anger became hot and he cast the tablets out of his hands
cast the tablets out of his hands
cast the tablets out of his hands and broke them at the foot of the
and broke them at the foot of the
and broke them at the foot of the mountain
then he took the cuff which they had
then he took the cuff which they had made burned it in the fire and ground it
made burned it in the fire and ground it
made burned it in the fire and ground it to powder
he scattered it on the water and made
he scattered it on the water and made the children of Israel drink
Moses said to Aaron what did this do
Moses said to Aaron what did this do that you have brought so great a sin
that you have brought so great a sin
that you have brought so great a sin upon them do not let the anger of my
upon them do not let the anger of my
upon them do not let the anger of my Lord become hot you know the people that
Lord become hot you know the people that
Lord become hot you know the people that they are set on evil for they said to me
they are set on evil for they said to me
they are set on evil for they said to me make us gods that shall go before us
make us gods that shall go before us
make us gods that shall go before us that's for this Moses the man who
that's for this Moses the man who
that's for this Moses the man who brought us out of the land of Egypt we
brought us out of the land of Egypt we
brought us out of the land of Egypt we do not know what has become of him and I
do not know what has become of him and I
do not know what has become of him and I said to them whoever has any gold let
said to them whoever has any gold let
said to them whoever has any gold let them break it off so they gave it to me
them break it off so they gave it to me
them break it off so they gave it to me and I cast it into the fire and this
and I cast it into the fire and this
and I cast it into the fire and this calf came out now when Moses saw that
calf came out now when Moses saw that
calf came out now when Moses saw that the people who were unrestrained
the people who were unrestrained
the people who were unrestrained for Aaron had not restrained them to
for Aaron had not restrained them to
for Aaron had not restrained them to their shame among their enemies then
their shame among their enemies then
their shame among their enemies then Moses stood in the entrance of the camp
Moses stood in the entrance of the camp
Moses stood in the entrance of the camp and said whoever is on the Lord's side
and said whoever is on the Lord's side
and said whoever is on the Lord's side come to me and all the sons of Levi
come to me and all the sons of Levi
come to me and all the sons of Levi gathered themselves together to him he
gathered themselves together to him he
gathered themselves together to him he said to them thus says the Lord God of
said to them thus says the Lord God of
said to them thus says the Lord God of Israel let every man put his sword on
Israel let every man put his sword on
Israel let every man put his sword on his side and go in and out from entrance
his side and go in and out from entrance
his side and go in and out from entrance to entrance throughout the camp
to entrance throughout the camp
to entrance throughout the camp and let every man kill his brother every
and let every man kill his brother every
and let every man kill his brother every man his companion and every man his
man his companion and every man his
man his companion and every man his neighbor
so the sons of Levi did according to the
so the sons of Levi did according to the word of Moses about 3,000 men of the
word of Moses about 3,000 men of the
word of Moses about 3,000 men of the people fell that day
people fell that day
people fell that day [Applause]
[Applause]
[Applause] [Music]
then Moses said consecrate yourselves
then Moses said consecrate yourselves today that he may bestow on you a
today that he may bestow on you a
today that he may bestow on you a blessing this day for every man as
blessing this day for every man as
blessing this day for every man as opposed his son and his brother
now it came to pass on the next day that
now it came to pass on the next day that Moses said to the people you have
Moses said to the people you have
Moses said to the people you have committed a great sin
so now I will go up to the Lord perhaps
so now I will go up to the Lord perhaps I can make atonement for your sin then
I can make atonement for your sin then
I can make atonement for your sin then Moses returned to the Lord and said oh
these people have committed a great sin
these people have committed a great sin and have made for themselves a God of
and have made for themselves a God of
and have made for themselves a God of gold
gold
gold yet now if you will forgive their sin
[Music]
[Music] but if not I pray block me out of your
but if not I pray block me out of your
but if not I pray block me out of your book which you have written
whoever has sinned against me I will
whoever has sinned against me I will blot him out of my book now therefore go
blot him out of my book now therefore go
blot him out of my book now therefore go lead the people to the place of which I
lead the people to the place of which I
lead the people to the place of which I have spoken to you behold my angel shall
have spoken to you behold my angel shall
have spoken to you behold my angel shall go before you nevertheless in the day
go before you nevertheless in the day
go before you nevertheless in the day when I visit for punishment I will visit
when I visit for punishment I will visit
when I visit for punishment I will visit punishment upon them for their sin so
punishment upon them for their sin so
punishment upon them for their sin so [Music]
[Music]
[Music] the Lord plagued the people because of
the Lord plagued the people because of
the Lord plagued the people because of what they did with a calf which Aaron
what they did with a calf which Aaron
what they did with a calf which Aaron made